---
title: 
date:
  DateTime: 2011-06-05T13:37:54.0000000
  UtcDateTime: 2011-06-05T13:37:54.0000000Z
  LocalDateTime: 2011-06-05T23:37:54.0000000+10:00
  Date: 2011-06-05T00:00:00.0000000
  Day: 5
  DayOfYear: 156
  Hour: 13
  Minute: 37
  Month: 6
  Second: 54
  Ticks: 634428778740000000
  UtcTicks: 634428778740000000
  TimeOfDay:
    Ticks: 490740000000
    Hours: 13
    Minutes: 37
    Seconds: 54
    TotalDays: 0.567986111111111
    TotalHours: 13.6316666666667
    TotalMilliseconds: 49074000
    TotalMinutes: 817.9
    TotalSeconds: 49074
  Year: 2011
layout: post
categories: []
tags: []
---

      Torrential is a brand new uTorrent Controller App for Windows Phone 7. Manage your torrents on the go, as well as be notified when they are complete.  You can quickly and easily search for torrents from the popular torrent hub, Isohunt using the built in search.     Coming in Version 1.3.0  Auto Refresh  Simple but effective, the torrent list will constantly refresh whilst inside the app. You will be able to set the refresh interval on the settings page.  Live Tiles  No I’m not talking about one of your kitchen tiles gaining sentience, I’m talking about glanceable information on your windows phone 7 live tile for Torrential. Some feedback about what information you would like on there would be great. Contact Me if you have any ideas.  Screenshots          See it in Action!         Features     Manage torrents – Start, Force Start, Pause, Stop, Remove, Remove + Data     Torrent Progress – Check download speeds, upload speeds, estimated time to complete, peers, seeders, etc…     Auto-Login – You only need to setup your uTorrent server details once     Isohunt Integration – Search directly from Isohunt using the built in search     Push Notifications – Receive a notification when a download has completed     No extra software needed – Torrential has no need for extra software to be installed or run on your computer     Filtered Torrent List – Filter your torrents by Active, Inactive and Complete     Manual torrent adding via URL or Web Browser     Shake to refresh   Upcoming Features     Search result detail, including comments and files     More search providers     Automatic updating whilst inside the app     Live Tile Information     Private torrent site support   Updates  Version 1.2.0 – 5 December 2010  Add Torrents from the Web Browser  By popular demand, I have changed the next scheduled release to include adding torrents from the web browser. I have also built a trial version to let you guys have a poke around before deciding this app is for you. Expect this one in the marketplace within the next few days.  Individual Files within a Torrent  This one just made it into this release. You can now view the individual files within a torrent.  Shake to Refresh  Sick of touching the screen? You can now simply shake your phone and it will refresh your torrent list and torrent screen!  Version 1.1.0 – 17 November 2010  Filtered Torrent List  That’s right, first cab off the rank is the torrent list. We all know and love our singular aggregate lists, but what if life offered you more, in the form of filtered lists? You’d be ecstatic right? Me too. Look for this gem next week after the update is rolled out over the weekend.  Version 1.0.0 – 11 November 2010  We’re at version one baby, yeah!  Feedback  If you have any comments or suggestions, please use the feedback tab on your left. Alternatively, for those of you who have a thought on the go and the power of a windows phone 7 phone in their hands, you can send me an email from the feedback screen within the application itself. 
var uservoiceOptions = {
  /* required */
  key: ‘torrential’,
  host: ‘torrential.uservoice.com’, 
  forum: ’88381′,
  showTab: true,  
  /* optional */
  alignment: ‘left’,
  background_color:’#f00′, 
  text_color: ‘white’,
  hover_color: ‘#06C’,
  lang: ‘en’
};
function _loadUserVoice() {
  var s = document.createElement(‘script’);
  s.setAttribute(‘type’, ‘text/javascript’);
  s.setAttribute(‘src’, (“https:” == document.location.protocol ? “https://” : “http://”) + “cdn.uservoice.com/javascripts/widgets/tab.js”);
  document.getElementsByTagName(‘head’)[0].appendChild(s);
}
_loadSuper = window.onload;
window.onload = (typeof window.onload != ‘function’) ? _loadUserVoice : function() { _loadSuper(); _loadUserVoice(); };
